{
  "schema": {
    // Data model
  },
  "form": [
    // This is where you can control the layout of the form!
  ]
}

The schema property is required. It describes the structured data model that must be created when the form is submitted.
SON object that follows the properties definition of the JSON Schema specification. JSON Schema lets you describe the data structure that you'd like to generate from the form as well as constraints on possible values, such as the maximum number of characters that a string may contain.


The form property is an array that describes the list and order of fields that compose the form. This property is optional. In its absence, a default form is generated from the schema. The structure of a form is not necessarily flat: an item in the form array may describe a group of fields or an array.

By default, JSON Form groups all the input fields created from the properties of an object together in a fieldset

The onSubmitValid callback is optional as well but chances are you will want to do something with the values entered by the user when the form is submitted and that callback is the easiest way around. It receives the object generated from the submitted values and the schema, provided the values are valid. If you need to do something special when submitted values are invalid for some reason, rather use the onSubmit callback, called whenever the form is submitted, that receives the list of errors as first parameter.


--Supported types--

Types are the most straightforward constraint you can put on property values. All properties must have a type, otherwise JSON Form will go berserk and attempt to destroy the Earth.

JSON Form supports all JSON Schema simple types that make sense in the context of an HTML form:

string for strings
number for numbers, including floating numbers
integer for integers
boolean for booleans
array for arrays
object for objects.


--From schema element to form field--

To generate the form, the JSON Form library parses the schema recursively and checks the type and options of the properties it defines to decide upon the type of HTML form input to append to the form. The following mapping is used:

A string property that defines a list of possible values in an enum property generates a selection field, i.e. a <select> element
A string property that defines a format property whose value is color generates a color picker field
A generic string property generates a text input otherwise, i.e. an <input type="text"> element
A number property generates a text input, i.e. an <input type="number"> element.
An integer property generates a text input as well, i.e. an <input type="text"> element.
A boolean property generates a checkbox, i.e. an <input type="checkbox"> element.
An object property generates a fieldset, i.e. a <fieldset> element. The fieldset contains the sub-form/HTML generated by the object's properties.
An array property generates an array wrapper that features Add/Remove buttons and items reordering. Each array item is generated from the sub-form defined in the items property of the array (which must be an object and not an array as mentioned in the previous section). The array is initially rendered with one item. That item cannot be removed (note the user may decide to leave that item empty though, meaning the submitted array may well be empty).


--Common schema properties--
The JSON Form library uses the information available in the JSON schema to complete each generated field. In particular:

The title property serves as label for the input.
The description property is displayed next to the input field to guide user input.
The default property sets the initial value of a field.
The maxLength property sets the maxlength attribute of the input field
The minimum, maximum, exclusiveMinimum, exclusiveMaximum properties are used to set corresponding attributes for a range input field.
The minItems and maxItems properties are used to restrict the number of items that may be added or removed to an array.
The readOnly property sets the readonly attribute of the input field
The required property marks the input field as required, adds a jsonform-required class to the container markup of the input field for styling purpose and adds a jsonform-hasrequired class to the <form> tag e.g. to allow one to add a legend that explains that fields marked with an asterisk are required, e.g. with CSS properties.

Code should automatically generates an ID for all input fields. IDs are prefixed by jsonform_ and a form counter to avoid conflicts 
When you don't define a form section, code creates a default one for you and generates the corresponding form:
[
  "*",
  {
    "type": "actions",
    "items": [
      {
        "type": "submit",
        "title": "Submit"
      }
    ]
  }
]

In other words, it produces a form that contains all properties defined in the schema (represented by the \* value) followed by an actions fieldset that contains a submit button.